---
title: "MVC Post Redirect Get Pattern"
published: true
---
I have seen some strange things going on in MVC controllers, but one thing that really [grinds my gears](http://utbblogs.com/home/bradu25/public_html/wp-content/uploads/2015/05/grinds-my-gears.png) is the following code:

```csharp
public ActionMethod CreateUser()
{
    // Do some stuff
   return View();
}
[HttpPost]
public ActionMethod SaveUser(ViewModel model)
{
    if(ModelState.IsValid) { // Save to db }    
    return View(model);
}
```
<br />
## What's the problem with this?
Where do I start, there are a few:

* Why do we need two different `ActionMethod` names? CreateUser and SaveUser?
You can simply have a `Create()` `HttpGet` and a `Create(ViewModel model)` `HttpPost`. It is easier to read and actually makes sense.

* The user can easily resubmit the `POST` by pressing `F5`. 
This could potentially be very bad for the user, for example, an online payment system, if this type of implementation was in place and the user pressed `F5`, and it would re-submit the form and take the payment again.

* You could even be adding an item to some sort of shopping basket, pressing `F5` will keep adding the same item over and over.

We can easily fix this common issue by using the Post Redirect Get (PRG) pattern.

## The Solution


```csharp
public ActionMethod CreateUser()
{
    // Do some stuff
   return View();
}
[HttpPost]
public ActionMethod CreateUser(ViewModel model)
{
    if(ModelState.IsValid) 
    {
        // Save to db
        return RedirectToAction("CreateUser");
    }
    return View(model);
}
```

It's that simple. 
Make the `ActionMethods` have the same name (They need different method signatures) and decorate the `POST` action with `[HttpPost]`, this means this `ActionMethod` can only be used with an `HTTP POST` request. 
After all the processing is done e.g. Save user to the DB all we need to do is return the *Get* `ActionMethod` in my example, this is the `CreateUser()` method. So now if the user presses `F5` it will simply issue a new request to the `GET` `CreateUser()` method and not resubmit the `POST`.
